What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
The problem that was solved for this project was creating a program that could read input from a file, organize course data, and add, delete, alter, and serve it up upon request in a meaningful, easy to read format. This information would show courses, course description, and any prerequisites required.
How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
I approached this by determining how the data would best be stored to operate efficiently. I determined this to be the binary search tree. Understanding data structures becomes more important the larger a project is. Being able to calculate the Big O number and how to read this can help effortlessly in determining how to proceed.
How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
The major roadblock I encountered while working on this project was the use of eclipse in the student virtual space. I found it to be extremely laggy and was unable to run programs to begin with. I overcame these issues by downloading eclipse, using it locally, and reading up on the errors I received while trying to execute each time. My take away here is a better understanding of eclipse.
How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
My work on this project expanded my approach to designing software by the use of psuedocode and flowcharts to help writing what I wanted the program to do in concise plain language prior to building upon it with code. This approach is a good way to stay organized and keep me on track when working on separate pieces at a time.
How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
My work on this project has helped me get more practice at writing code that I do not get outside of class. I usually have issues keeping up with notes within code and having a cluttered code base im sure. I like to think that I have done good at addressing these issues with this project.
